# RADIUS-SIMULATOR

The project is aimed at developing a tool which simulates the RADIUS Client functionality. It enables centralized authentication, authorization and accounting for all the dial-in users who wants to connect and use network services. RADIUS facilitates centralized user administration, which is important for several of these applications. Many ISPs have tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands, or even millions of users. Users are added and deleted continuously throughout the day, and user authentication information changes constantly. Centralized administration of users in this setting is an operational requirement. The distributive nature of RADIUS effectively separates the security processes (carried out on the authentication server) from the communications processes (implemented by the modem pool or the Network Access Server (NAS)), allowing for a single centralized information store for authorization and authentication information. This centralization can significantly lessen the administrative burden of providing appropriate access control for a large number of remote users. If ensuring high availability is not a priority, then redundancy is not required; this centralization can thus be maximized, since all RADIUS-compatible hardware on a LAN can derive authentication services from a single server. 

In this project we are going to develop a RADIUS client tool which will be able to authenticate multiple dial-in users (user equipment) with centralized RADIUS server and authorize them to use network services and along with that it will account all the users for the services provided to them. We are going to use FreeRadius open source tool as a RADIUS server. FreeRadius server will maintain the central database of user profiles. On the basis of the profiles maintained in the DB, server will authenticate the user that whether the incoming request from our client is for valid user or not. Only after successful authentication, server will provide access to network services to the users.
